Add 'Managing the audit daemon' page (#585)
coreos/fedora-coreos-docs: modules/ROOT/pages/audit.adoc

= Managing the audit daemon (`auditd`)

Starting with the first release based on Fedora 39, Fedora CoreOS includes the audit daemon (`auditd`) to load and manage audit rules.

> While the audit daemon

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Like all system daemons on Fedora CoreOS, the audit daemon is managed by systemd but with an exception: it can not be stopped or restarted via `systemctl stop auditd` or `systemctl restart auditd` for compliance reasons.

> From [Unable to restart/stop auditd service using systemctl command in RHEL](https://access.redhat.com/solutions/2664811):

Reviewer: Fix the link.. I think this is markdown formatting, not asciidoc.

> The reason for this unusual handling of restart/stop requests is that auditd is treated specially by the kernel: the credentials of a process that sends a killing signal to auditd are saved to the audit log. The audit developers do not want to see the credentials of PID 1 logged there. They want to see the login UID of the user who initiated the action.

To stop and restart the audit daemon, you should use the following commands:

[source,bash]
----
$ sudo auditctl stop

> $ sudo systemctl start  # Only if you want to restart the daemon

Reviewer: Maybe more clear:

```suggestion
$ sudo systemctl start  # Only if you want it started again
```

----

> You man also use the following commands to reload the rules, rotate the logs, resume (?), fetch the state:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may also use the following commands to reload the rules, rotate the logs, resume (?), fetch the state:
```

Maybe we could link to docs somewhere for exactly what each of those commands do?

Like all system daemons on Fedora CoreOS, the audit daemon is managed by systemd but with an exception: it can not be stopped or restarted via `systemctl stop auditd` or `systemctl restart auditd` for compliance reasons.

From https://access.redhat.com/solutions/2664811[Unable to restart/stop auditd service using systemctl command in RHEL]:

[quote]
____
"The reason for this unusual handling of restart/stop requests is that auditd is treated specially by the kernel: the credentials of a process that sends a killing signal to auditd are saved to the audit log. The audit developers do not want to see the credentials of PID 1 logged there. They want to see the login UID of the user who initiated the action."
____

To stop and restart the audit daemon, you should use the following commands:

[source,bash]
----
$ sudo auditctl stop
$ sudo systemctl start  # Only if you want it started again
----

You may also use the following commands to reload the rules, rotate the logs, resume logging or dump the daemon state:

[source,bash]
----
$ sudo auditctl reload
$ sudo auditctl rotate
$ sudo auditctl resume

> $ sudo auditctl state

Author: Thanks!
